
--- PAGE 1 ---
Course Code
Course Title
Credit
CSC801
Advanced Artificial Intelligence
Prerequisite: Engineering Mathematics, Data Structures and Algorithm, Python Programming
Course Objcctivcs: To relate with the basic concepts of Probabilistic Models_ To understand the scope of Generative Networks in the field of AI. To recognize various components of Autoencoder Architecture and Training process To learn the fundamnentals of Transfer Learning Provide students with a comprehensive understanding Of ensemble methods and their applications. ITo explore the nascent applications of AI Course Outcomes: After successful completion of the course student will be able to Acquire basic knowledge of Probabilistic Models_ Analyze the working and architecture for Generative Networks Iinterpret various components and various types of Autoencoders Understand various aspects of Transfer Leaming Apply ensemble learning techniques to real-world problems and demonstrate improved predictive perfonnance_ RRelate to the nascent technologies in the field of artificial intelligence_ Module Content IHrs
1.0
Generative and Probabilistic Models
08
1.1| Introduction: Overview of generative models and their importance in Al, Fundanentals [Probability theory and generative modeling; Introduction to GANs; VAEs and lother generative models  Significance of generative models, Challenges with Igenerative models 1.27 Probabilistic Models: Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs); Hidden Markov Models (HMMs), Bayesian  Networks, Markov Random Field (MRFs) Probabilistic Graphical Model Generative Adversarial Network 2.1/Basics of GAN Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) architecture, The discriminator model land   gcncrator  model, Architccturc and  Training of GANs; Vanilla GAN Architecture_ GAN variants and improvements (DCGAN,WGAN, Conditional IGAN, CycleGAN), Challenges- Training instability and model collapse, GAN lapplications in image Isynthesis and style transfer
2.0
3.0
Variational Autoencoders

--- PAGE 2 ---
3.1 ntroduction: Basic   components of Variational Autoencoders(VAEs), Architecture and Itraining of VAEs the loss function; Latent space representation and inference Applications of VAEs in image generation.
3.2 Types of Autoencoders: Undcrcomplctc autocncodcrs, Sparsc autocncodcrs, Contractivc autocncodcrs_ [Denoising autocncodcrs, Variational Autocncodcrs for gencrative modelling) Transfer Learning 05
4.0
4.1 Introduction to transfer learning Basic terminologies_ Pre-trained model and data sets, Feature extraction and fine tune transfer learning Recent advancement in transfer learning Self- supervised learning and meta learning:
5.0
Ensemble learning
06
5.1Ensemble Classifiers:
lintroduction to Ensemble Methods_ Bagging and random forests, Boosting lalgorithms: AdaBoost   Stacking and  Blending   Models, Extreme Gradien Boosting (XGBoost): XGBoost Regression and classification
6.0
Nascent Technologies in AI
Ensemble Classifiers:
Limitations of 2D Learning Environmcnts,_ Evolution of virtual  worlds and limmersive   technologies, Definition and concepts of  Augmented Reality_ [Dcfinition and conccpt of thc Mctavcrsc, Charactcristics and components of thd Metaverse, Challenges and opportunities in the Metaverse ecosystem; AI in the kealm of cmcrging quantum paradigms
Textbooks: FFoster , D,, 2022. Generative deep learning: 'Reilly Media , Inc Koller , D. and Friedman, N. 2009. Probabilistic graphical models: principles and techniques MIT press Goodfellow , 2016 Deep Learning-lan Goodfellow; Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville- Google Books Murphy; KP. 2012. Machine learning: & probabilistic perspective. MIT press Zhou; ZH,, 2012. Ensemble methods: foundations and algorithms. CRC press
References: Kiong, Hsiang; EL. He Zhan, and Wu; S 2021_ Augmented reality and virtual reality displays: lemerging technologies and future perspectives Light: Science & Applications 10(1), p.216_ 2 Mystakidis; S., 2022. Metaverse. Encyclopedia, 2(1  Pp.486-497 Gill; S.S_ Xu_ M: Ottaviani, C Patros Bahsoon R., Shaghaghi, A Golec; M,, Stankovski, V,, Wu, H,, Abraham, A. and Singh, M , 2022. Al for next generation computing: Emerging trends and future directions_ IInternet of Things 19, p.100514